# an update on the general state of affairs
It's been awhile since I wrote something here. I'm not sure it matters much because I can count the number of people who know the URL on one hand. Regardless, writing is a useful habit if only to organize some of my own thoughts. As a primer to get back into the swing of things, I present to you, dear reader, the mundane life update post.

First and foremost, I've moved. Until a month ago I was living in a 20 story apartment building in the Loring Park neighborhood of Minneapolis. It had the perk of being close the the "action" of downtown, but this was muted by the pandemic and a general stoppage of most aspects of city life. In retrospect, it wasn't the right place for me. Navigating the narrow staircase with a bike (or trying to stuff it into an already-occupied elevator) was a hassle. There was no street parking for family or friends. Perhaps worst of all, my bedroom faced I-94. I have a general disdain for freeways (for a myriad of reasons, perhaps the topic of a future post), but in the summer it was heightened by the difficult choice of closing the apartment off from fresh air or subjecting myself to the sudden and loud noises of trucks downshifting and motorbikes accelerating into the early hours of the morning. Spurred on by this and various maintenance disasters in the previous year, including a three unit fire a floor below and a spring flood, I starting apartment hunting. After a long search and many, many tours I found a two bedroom unit and a new roommate, with whom I attended high school. The apartment is in Northeast Minneapolis and it's sunny, pleasant space I was hoping for. It isn't perfect -- a nearby rail yard still makes noise in the night. However, the rhythmic thumping of trains going by is a far cry from the sharp sound of tiny car engines. In the morning I hear birdsong. It's pleasant.

Around this time in very early spring I was feeling increasingly listless and also began applying to new jobs for a fresh start. A really, really, fresh start. I applied to a Duolingo developer position based in Beijing. Another position was in South America. I even applied to work as an English language instructor in rural Japan. That last position was on the track to accepting me, and perhaps the only reason I am still in the United States today is because Medtronic (based here, in a Minneapolis suburb) made an offer first. It came with a 35% raise and better benefits cementing the idea that _leaving_ a company is how developers get raises in the 21st century. Maybe I was just a bad employee in my last position. Maybe that's impostor syndrome. Maybe both are true simultaneously. Regardless, I'm here now. In a way it's the fresh start I had envisioned, but the nagging feeling that software is not how I want to spend my life remains. It's lucrative, but it isn't really my passion. Then again, looking at peers who chased their dreams and struggle to pay rent, it's hard to complain. The romantic idea of money not being the key to happiness is only a partial picture. It might not be the _key_, but it's certainly a prerequisite.

That'll have to do for now. My goal is to make entries a monthly occurrence. Stay tuned.